Technote/tn0008 production readiness (#153)
apollographql/docs: src/content/technotes/TN0008-production-readiness-checklist.mdx

---
title: Production readineess checklist
id: TN0008
tags: [server, sre, client, best practices]
---

Before you start to take on production traffic from your clients, we'd recommend running through this checklist.

## In Apollo Studio

- Ensure you are creating [graph variants](/studio/org/graphs#managing-variants) to differentiate your development stages
  - Optionally, [protect your production variant](/studio/org/graphs#protected-variants-enterprise-only) to avoid accidental changes while working in Apollo Studio

> - Ensure your [clients are being correctly identified](/studio/client-awareness/) by name and version

Reviewer: Maybe a callout to the client id enforcement plugin technote here as well?

Author: ++ great callout; will add a link

  - If using an Apollo Client library, add the name and version to the constructor 
    - For example, the [React client uses the `name` and `version` attributes](/react/api/core/ApolloClient#name)in the constructor options
  - If using a third-party GraphQL client, set the `apollographql-client-name` and `apollographql-client-version` headers on the request to identify your client
  
## Server-side
- Turn off introspection for your production servers
  - Apollo Studio can be used to see the schema per variant if required

> - Ensure [Managed Federation](/federation/managed-federation/setup/) is configured

Reviewer 2: do we want to say this? I know it's highly recommended but might want to consider the other side (unmanaged federations) a little

Reviewer 2: could just call out to the unmanaged TN vs copying it here too.

Author: imo we should be recommending it since running unmanaged is gnarly as the other technote covers; definitely open to removing however

Reviewer 2: 👍 sounds good to me - just had a client bring up potently not doing that but if were going to do this as recommendations it makes a lot of sense to not mention unmanaged federations.

- Ensure [`rover subgraph check`](/rover/commands/subgraphs#subgraph-check) and [`rover subgraph publish`](/rover/commands/subgraphs#subgraph-publish) are integrated into your CI/CD pipeline
- If your [subgraph server is listed as compatible with `ftv1`](/federation/other-servers), ensure [federated traces](/federation/metrics/) are enabled and are being visualized as expected within Apollo Studio
  - Enable [fractional trace sampling via `fieldLevelInstrumentation`](/studio/metrics/field-usage/#fractional-sampling) to reduce performance hits due to tracing
- Consider adding caching layers
  - Apollo Server and Apollo Router have support for [Automatic Persisted Queries (APQ)](/apollo-server/performance/apq/) out of the box
    - If using an Apollo Client, make sure to enable APQ support
    - If using Apollo Server, ensure you use a [distributed caching system](/apollo-server/performance/cache-backends) for APQ in production to avoid cache inconsistency across server instances
    - Additionally, you can have your Apollo Gateway send APQ requests
      - See [the example below](#apollo-gateway-apq-example) for an example of how to configure this

>   - [Full response caching](/apollo-server/performance/caching/) can be introduced to enable CDN caching abilities

Reviewer: I think this is a bit incorrect on the face of it. The response cache doesn't enable using a CDN by itself from what I understand, but using the @cacheControl directive can set HTTP cache-control headers and APQ can enable the use of GET requests.

Author: fixed

- Ensure you've load tested your graph
  - This should be done with a load representative of your current traffic. Operations that will be used in production can be used in the load testing
  - To investigate performance issues, identify which operations are performing slowly using Apollo Studio
    - Look at the resolver execution times for slow areas of execution 
    - Avoid having multiple datasource calls in a single resolver whenever possible
    - Understand [query plan execution](/federation/query-plans) for slow performing operations and to help optimize schema design

### Apollo Gateway APQ example

> This example uses both the [`buildService`](/federation/api/apollo-gateway/#buildservice) option and the [`RemoteGraphQLDataSource`](/federation/api/apollo-gateway/#apq) class to enable APQ to each subgrpah.

Reviewer 3: nit: s/subgrpah/subgraph/

```js
const { ApolloServer } = require('apollo-server');
const { ApolloGateway, RemoteGraphQLDataSource } = require('@apollo/gateway');
const { readFileSync } = require('fs');

const gateway = new ApolloGateway({
  supergraphSdl: readFileSync("./supergraph.graphql").toString(),
  buildService: ({url})=>{

>     return new RemoteGraphQLDataSource({url, apq:false})

Reviewer 3: above it says it's enabling, but i think this is disabling it?

Author: 🤦 i was testing to make sure the snippet worked and must've copied when i disabled it; will fix.

---
title: Production readineess checklist
id: TN0008
tags: [server, sre, client, best practices]
---

> Before you start to take on production traffic from your clients, we'd recommend running through this checklist.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We recommend that you complete this checklist before your supergraph begins handling production traffic from clients.
```

## In Apollo Studio

> - Ensure you are creating [graph variants](/studio/org/graphs#managing-variants) to differentiate your development stages

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Ensure that you've created multiple [variants](/studio/org/graphs#managing-variants) to represent the different environments where your supergraph runs (production, staging, and so on).
```

>   - Optionally, [protect your production variant](/studio/org/graphs#protected-variants-enterprise-only) to avoid accidental changes while working in Apollo Studio

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - Optionally, [protect your production variant](/studio/org/graphs#protected-variants-enterprise-only) to avoid accidental changes while working in Apollo Studio.
```

> - Ensure your [clients are being correctly identified](/studio/client-awareness/) by name and version

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Ensure that your [clients identify themselves](/studio/client-awareness/) by name and version.
```

>   - If using an Apollo Client library, add the name and version to the constructor 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - If you're using an Apollo Client library, you can add a client name and version to the constructor.
```

>     - For example, the [React client uses the `name` and `version` attributes](/react/api/core/ApolloClient#name)in the constructor options

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - For example, the [React client uses the `name` and `version` attributes](/react/api/core/ApolloClient#name) in the constructor options.
```

>   - If using a third-party GraphQL client, set the `apollographql-client-name` and `apollographql-client-version` headers on the request to identify your client

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - If you're using a third-party GraphQL client, set the `apollographql-client-name` and `apollographql-client-version` HTTP headers for each request to identify your client.
```

>   - For an example of enforcing this as a requirement at the Gateway, see [this technote for Client ID enforcement](/technotes/TN0001-client-id-enforcement/) 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - For an example of enforcing client identification in your gateway, see [this technote for Client ID enforcement](/technotes/TN0001-client-id-enforcement/).
```

> ## Server-side

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Server-side

```

> - Turn off introspection for your production servers

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- For security, disable introspection for all production GraphQL servers.
```

>   - Apollo Studio can be used to see the schema per variant if required

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - You can continue to view and fetch your GraphQL schemas from Apollo Studio.
```

> - Ensure [Managed Federation](/federation/managed-federation/setup/) is configured

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Ensure that you've correctly configured [managed federation](/federation/managed-federation/setup/).
```

> - Ensure [`rover subgraph check`](/rover/commands/subgraphs#subgraph-check) and [`rover subgraph publish`](/rover/commands/subgraphs#subgraph-publish) are integrated into your CI/CD pipeline

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Ensure that you've integrated [`rover subgraph check`](/rover/commands/subgraphs#subgraph-check) and [`rover subgraph publish`](/rover/commands/subgraphs#subgraph-publish) into your CI/CD pipeline.
```

> - If your [subgraph server is listed as compatible with `ftv1`](/federation/other-servers), ensure [federated traces](/federation/metrics/) are enabled and are being visualized as expected within Apollo Studio

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- If your [subgraph servers are listed as compatible with `ftv1`](/federation/other-servers), ensure that you've enabled [federated traces](/federation/metrics/), and that you can view operation metrics as expected in Apollo Studio.
```

>   - Enable [fractional trace sampling via `fieldLevelInstrumentation`](/studio/metrics/field-usage/#fractional-sampling) to reduce performance hits due to tracing

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - Enable [fractional trace sampling via `fieldLevelInstrumentation`](/studio/metrics/field-usage/#fractional-sampling) to reduce performance hits due to tracing.
```

> - Consider adding caching layers

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Consider adding caching layers.
```

>   - Apollo Server and Apollo Router have support for [Automatic Persisted Queries (APQ)](/apollo-server/performance/apq/) out of the box

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - Apollo Server and the Apollo Router both support [automatic persisted queries (APQ)](/apollo-server/performance/apq/) out of the box.
```

>     - If using an Apollo Client, make sure to enable APQ support

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - If you're using an Apollo Client library, make sure to enable APQ support.
```

>     - If using Apollo Server, ensure you use a [distributed caching system](/apollo-server/performance/cache-backends) for APQ in production to avoid cache inconsistency across server instances

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - If using Apollo Server, ensure that you use a [distributed caching system](/apollo-server/performance/cache-backends) for APQ in production to avoid cache inconsistency across server instances.
```

>     - Utilizing the [`@cacheControl` directive](/apollo-server/api/plugin/cache-control) can allow your CDN to cache APQ GET requests using the `Cache-Control` header

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Optionally use the [`@cacheControl` directive](/apollo-server/api/plugin/cache-control) to enable your CDN to cache APQ GET requests using the `Cache-Control` header.
```

>     - Additionally, you can have your Apollo Gateway send APQ requests

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Additionally, you can configure your gateway can send APQ requests to your subgraphs.
```

>       - See [the example below](#apollo-gateway-apq-example) for an example of how to configure this

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      - [See the example below.](#apollo-gateway-apq-example)
```

>   - [Full response caching](/apollo-server/performance/caching/) can be introduced to improve performance out of the box

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - Optionally add [full response caching](/apollo-server/performance/caching/) to improve performance.
```

> - Ensure you've load tested your graph

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Ensure that you've load-tested your graph.
```

>   - This should be done with a load representative of your current traffic. Operations that will be used in production can be used in the load testing

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - Test loads should be representative of your current traffic (both in terms of volume _and_ in terms of the actual operations you execute in the test).
```

>   - To investigate performance issues, identify which operations are performing slowly using Apollo Studio

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - To investigate performance issues, use Apollo Studio to identify which operations are performing slowly.
```

>     - Look at the resolver execution times for slow areas of execution 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Look at resolver execution times to identify slow areas of execution.
```

>     - Avoid having multiple datasource calls in a single resolver whenever possible

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Whenever possible, avoid making multiple calls to data sources within a single resolver.
```

>     - Understand [query plan execution](/federation/query-plans) for slow performing operations and to help optimize schema design

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Understand [query plan execution](/federation/query-plans) to help understand slow operations and optimize your supergraph to avoid them.
```
